rogov/roera-000-000-000-dulan/rogov-000-000-000/README.md, before:

# ROGOV-0: Founding
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents**
    - **[Summary](#summary)**
    - **[Continuity](#continuity)**
    - **[Measures](#measures)**
    - **[Interpretations](#interpretations)**
    - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
    - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
    - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Summary
We establish that the objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and linked implementations. [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) controls these artifacts.

## Continuity
As the first ROGOV, this document does not establish continuity with any previous regime.

## Measures
- **Contents**
    - **[M1](#m1-the-objects-of-governance-are-artifacts-and-linked-implementations):** The objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and linked implementations.
    - **[M2](#m2-ramate-llc-is-the-governing-body):** [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) is the governing body.

### M1: The objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and linked implementations.
The governing body SHALL make decisions on the inclusion of [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) in this repository. This inclusion SHALL take the form of accepting [Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests) which add to the artifact set. The [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) on the `main` branch of this repository SHALL be regarded as included.

The governing body SHALL additionally make decisions on the details of linked implementations of the described protocols.

### M2: [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) is the governing body.
[Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) SHALL retain the right to make decisions pursuant to [M1](#m1-the-objects-of-governance-are-artifacts-and-linked-implementations) as it sees fit.

> [!NOTE]
>
> **[[Liam Monninger]](mailto:liam@ramate.io)**
>
> Currently, [Ramate LLC's](https://www.ramate.io) decision making with respect to OAC is delegate by [RGOV](https://github.com/ramate-io/ramate/tree/main/rgov) to the [`robles`](https://github.com/ramate-io/robles) project under [ROGOV](https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/tree/main/rogov).

## Interpretations
We assert there is no precedence for interpretation owing to the lack of [continuity](#continuity).

## Agreeing
$\emptyset$

## Dissenting
$\emptyset$

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="/assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="/assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>

Commit message:

feat: add stack members gloss.

rogov/roera-000-000-000-dulan/rogov-000-000-000/README.md, after:

# ROGOV-0: Founding
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents**
    - **[Summary](#summary)**
    - **[Continuity](#continuity)**
    - **[Measures](#measures)**
    - **[Interpretations](#interpretations)**
    - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
    - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
    - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Summary
We establish that the objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and [Stack Members](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-029-stack-member/README.md). [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) controls these artifacts.

## Continuity
As the first ROGOV, this document does not establish continuity with any previous regime.

## Measures
- **Contents**
    - **[M1](#m1-the-objects-of-governance-are-artifacts-and-stack-members):** The objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and [Stack Members](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-029-stack-member/README.md).
    - **[M2](#m2-ramate-llc-is-the-governing-body):** [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) is the governing body.

### M1: The objects of governance are [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and [Stack Members](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-029-stack-member/README.md).
The governing body SHALL make decisions on the inclusion of [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) in this repository. This inclusion SHALL take the form of accepting [Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests) which add to the artifact set. The [Artifacts](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) on the `main` branch of this repository SHALL be regarded as included.

The governing body SHALL additionally make decisions on the details of [Stack Members](/roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-029-stack-member/README.md) of the described protocols.

### M2: [Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) is the governing body.
[Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) SHALL retain the right to make decisions pursuant to [M1](#m1-the-objects-of-governance-are-artifacts-and-stack-members) as it sees fit.

> [!NOTE]
>
> **[[Liam Monninger]](mailto:liam@ramate.io)**
>
> Currently, [Ramate LLC's](https://www.ramate.io) decision making with respect to OAC is delegate by [RGOV](https://github.com/ramate-io/ramate/tree/main/rgov) to the [`robles`](https://github.com/ramate-io/robles) project under [ROGOV](https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/tree/main/rogov).

## Interpretations
We assert there is no precedence for interpretation owing to the lack of [continuity](#continuity).

## Agreeing
$\emptyset$

## Dissenting
$\emptyset$

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="/assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="/assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>
