rode/roera-000-000-000-dulan/rode-000-000-000/README.md, before:

# RODE-0: Use, Organization, and Maintenance of the OAC Repository
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents:**
  - **[Summary](#summary)**
  - **[Desiderata](#specification)**
  - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
  - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
  - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Summary
OAC has expressed intents to be a highly-organized project which is governed via this repository. As such, we request that use, organization, and maintenance of this repository be specified.

## Desiderata
- **Contents:**
  - **[D1](#d1-provide-templates-for-artifacts-and-describe-their-usage):** Provide templates for [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and describe their usage
  - **[D2](#d2-describe-the-overall-organization-of-the-artifacts):** Describe the overall organization of the [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md)
  - **[D3](#d3-describe-responsibilities-for-maintenance-of-this-repository):** Describe responsibilities for maintenance of this repository

### D1: Provide templates for [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md) and describe their usage
[ROGOV-0](../../../rogov/roera-000-000-000-dulan/rogov-000-000-000/README.md) asserts that the objects of governance--and thus the decided output of this repository--are the [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md). In order for contributors to effectively add to these [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md), they must be informed how draft them and generally use them.

### D2: Describe the overall organization of the [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md)
In addition to drafting individual [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md), Contributors must also clearly understand how the artifacts should be organized with respect to each other. This includes placement in directories, indexing, source control, etc.

### D3: Describe responsibilities for maintenance of this repository
[Ramate LLC](https://www.ramate.io) has been identified as the organization responsible for governing this repository, which currently means addressing the inclusion of [Artifacts](../../../roglo/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roglo-000-000-000-artifact/README.md). In greater procedural detail, describe what this entails.

## Agreeing
- **[AGR-1: Liam Monninger](./agreeing/agr-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that guide describes the exploratory nature of this initial phase well ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Dissenting
- **[DIS-1: Liam Monninger](./dissenting/dis-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that the guide does not make it clear how to participate ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="./assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="./assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>

Commit message:

chore: update contents for robles.

rode/roera-000-000-000-dulan/rode-000-000-000/README.md, after:

# RDE-0: Use, Organization, and Maintenance of the Robles Repository
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents:**
  - **[Summary](#summary)**
  - **[Desiderata](#specification)**
  - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
  - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
  - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Summary
We apply the same premise as [ODE-0](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac/blob/main/ode/oera-000-000-000-dulan/ode-000-000-000/README.md).

## Desiderata
- **Contents:**
  - **[D1](#d1-fulfill-requirements-analogous-to-ode-0):** Fulfill requirements analogous to **[ODE-0](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac/blob/main/ode/oera-000-000-000-dulan/ode-000-000-000/README.md)**

### D1: Fulfill requirements analogous to [ODE-0](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac/blob/main/ode/oera-000-000-000-dulan/ode-000-000-000/README.md)
For the sake of brevity, we simply requisite a mapping of requirements from **[ODE-0](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac/blob/main/ode/oera-000-000-000-dulan/ode-000-000-000/README.md)** onto this repository.

## Agreeing
- **[AGR-1: Liam Monninger](./agreeing/agr-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that guide describes the exploratory nature of this initial phase well ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Dissenting
- **[DIS-1: Liam Monninger](./dissenting/dis-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that the guide does not make it clear how to participate ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="./assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="./assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>
