roguide/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roguide-000-000-000/README.md, before:

# ROGUIDE-0: Welcome to OAC in the Dulan Era!
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents:**
  - **[Guide](#guide)**
  - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
  - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
  - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Guide
OAC is just beginning as a project! We use a system for grouping work by periods we call [OAC Eras (ROERA)](../../../roera/). The current era is [ROERA-0: Dulan](../../../roera/roera-000-000-000-dulan/README.md) and is our very first.

To kick off the **Dulan Era**, we made a proclamation about our intent to build systems of "decentralized consequence" called [ROPROC-0: Decentralized Consequence](../../../roproc/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roproc-000-000-000/README.md). This proclamation is key to understanding the motives behind this project. Read it!

From [ROPROC-0: Decentralized Consequence](../../../roproc/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roproc-000-000-000/README.md), we produced a roadmap, [ROROAD-0: The Attempt](../../../roroad/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roroad-000-000-000/README.md), for validating the foundational concepts of the project. We recommend you read [ROROAD-0: The Attempt](../../../roroad/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roroad-000-000-000/README.md) to understand how the project is being pursued.

Once you've familiarized yourself with [ROPROC-0: Decentralized Consequence](../../../roproc/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roproc-000-000-000/README.md) and [ROROAD-0: The Attempt](../../../roroad/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roroad-000-000-000/README.md), take the time to read through the [ROART index](../../../roart/). OAC is a conceptually oriented project--intended almost like a journal or academic institution; ROART are our key conceptual outputs.

Once you've done the above, you should have a strong enough sense of the project to explore at will! Welcome aboard!

## Agreeing
- **[AGR-1: Liam Monninger](./agreeing/agr-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that guide describes the exploratory nature of this initial phase well ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Dissenting
- **[DIS-1: Liam Monninger](./dissenting/dis-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that the guide does not make it clear how to participate ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="./assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="./assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>

Commit message:

chore: update contents for robles.

roguide/roera-000-000-000-dulan/roguide-000-000-000/README.md, after:

# ROGUIDE-0: Welcome to OAC in the Dulan Era!
- **Authors:** [Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)
- **Contents:**
  - **[Guide](#guide)**
  - **[Agreeing](#agreeing)**
  - **[Dissenting](#dissenting)**
  - **[Appendix](#appendix)**

## Guide
Robles is an implementation of [OAC](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac). At the time of writing, we recommend simply following [OGUIDE-0](https://github.com/ramate-io/oac/tree/main/oguide/oera-000-000-000-dulan/oguide-000-000-000), then returning to consider each of the linked implementations.

## Agreeing
- **[AGR-1: Liam Monninger](./agreeing/agr-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that guide describes the exploratory nature of this initial phase well ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Dissenting
- **[DIS-1: Liam Monninger](./dissenting/dis-001-liam-monninger/README.md):** argues that the guide does not make it clear how to participate ([Liam Monninger](mailto:liam@ramate.io)).

## Appendix
$\emptyset$

<!--ROBLES FOOTER: DO NOT REMOVE THIS LINE-->
---

<div align="center">
  <picture>
    <source srcset="./assets/robles-inverted-transparent.png" media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)">
    <img height="24" src="./assets/robles-transparent.png" alt="Robles"/>
  </picture>
  <br/>
  <sub>
    <b>Robles</b>
    <br/>
    &copy; 2025 <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles">ramate-io/robles</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://github.com/ramate-io/robles/blob/main/LICENSE">MIT License</a>
    <br/>
    <a href="https://www.ramate.io">ramate.io</a>
  </sub>
</div>
